So when we've got this
massive functionality and
task that a user might want to complete
within an application, the most
important thing is we need to know
which of those matter the most, right?
And this is where you get into top tasks,
right?
The main things that people wanna do.
So why focus on top tasks?
Well, it's crucial to make the primary
tasks that the user wants to
complete as accessible on your website or
your web app as possible to
ensure that people can use it,
especially if it's a thing
that they're doing regularly.
And it's imperative that the secondary
stuff doesn't get in the way, right?
Doesn't overwhelm you.
And very broadly,
typically 80% of your users will use about
20% of the tasks in your app, right,
or features in your app, and
they'll just use those again and again.
And so the last thing we wanna do is
the other 80% of the features to get in
the way and make it hard for
them to find the stuff.
So once I know all of the things
that people can do on an app or
might want to do or
we could build or whatever,
my next aim is to know, well,
which of these matter, right?
Which of these matter the most?
Now, never ever ask stakeholders that
because everybody will champion their own
idea and their own stuff.
So I carry out something
called a top task analysis.
And I talk about this on the user
research and testing course, but
I do wanna touch on it here at least
a little bit, and it's a methodology.
I use my own homebrew version of it
just to speed things up a little bit.
But basically,
it's a quick method of finding out what
people care about most on your apps.
And I'm running two of them right now
at the moment with my two projects I'm
working on, and it's very simple.
I use this app, which is called PollUnit.
And essentially all I'm
doing is I'm taking that
massive big list of tasks
that I've identified and
I'm creating a poll with
all of them listed out,
right, all of the different
tasks all listed down.
And I allow my target audience to either
suggest their own ideas to add to that
list in case I miss something or to vote
on the ones that they care about the most.
So it's a really simple process
to setting it up, right?
I'm literally gonna talk you
through it on PollUnit so
that you could do it
yourself if you wanted to.
You go and create a new poll,
you collect ideas on it,
you put in a bit of instructions
explaining what people are gonna be doing.
So in this particular example,
it's saying when you're first joining
the University of Florida, ask yourself
what tasks you wish to complete and
what information you wanted to know.
And then I advise people to search for
a keyword relating to that task.
If they find that somebody
had already added that or
I'd added that, then they can just press
the heart button that votes it up.
If it's not there,
they can add It themselves.
And so basically then,
you enter all that advice in and
then there's a few settings that you set
depending on your preference, whether
you want people to be able to comment
on it and all of that kind of stuff.
And then you basically end up with this
thing where people can submit ideas and
you can just add all of the ideas to
get it started of different tasks that
somebody might wanna complete.
And then the users can go in,
they see the instructions,
they find the one they're interested in,
they say yes I want that task.
Makes sense, very broadly, get the idea?
You can basically vote up and down tasks.
So once that's been done, once you've
got a load of users looking at that and
voting on tasks that you want you
need to do a little bit of cleaning
up afterwards cuz it tends
to be a little bit messy.
So there'll be duplications where people
didn't bother searching, but just
added the same idea again, or maybe they
worded it in a different way, or whatever.
So you have to remove those duplications
because there'll be overlap.
And then you need to simplify the wording
a little bit because sometimes
people say things in very
long convoluted ways,
and you can just reduce it down to two or
three words.
And as I go through this in more
detail in the user research and
testing course, you can actually even
use ChatGPT to help clean this up for
you so that you don't spend hours
going through a big old list.
But once you've got that list,
what you'll find is that,
say if you had a list of 100 tasks
that someone might want to do,
probably most of the votes will
sit in the top 30 of those, right?
And then there'll be a long
tail of other stuff.
Yeah, we got a question.
>> What's your thoughts on platforms
that allow users to vote on features?
>> Well, that's exactly what this is,
basically, is just we're doing
it up front rather than for
new features later on down the line.
But yeah, I mean, that's a great idea.
In fact, I actually suggested it to
you yesterday when we were chatting,
wouldn't I,
that it's a way that you can do it.
I'm a great fan of it because it
means that you can see what people
really care about.
And that's primarily what
PollUnit was set up for.
I'm just using it in a slightly
different way to kind of preempt this
before I actually start building stuff.
But yeah, the principle is great,.
>> But there is a double edged sword there
where it could be used against you where,
say, a particular feature has all the
upvotes, but it's not implemented because,
say, yeah, it's not a priority for
the company or something.
>> Yeah, and I would say there is an
obligation that falls onto the company to
clearly articulate why you're
not doing that feature, right?
There's often good reasons if a feature
is too complicated to implement or
is not in line with the vision
of the app or whatever else.
And I think you're better off
having that conversation with your
userbase than you are just
ignoring the problem, personally.
You were gonna ask,
I saw a hand over here somewhere.
Yeah, go for it.
>> Is this essentially
the same as a Kano analysis?
>> Yeah, it's not dissimilar.
The trouble is people throw a lot of
different names around for things.
But top task, I don't know a huge
amount about a Kano analysis,
so it's a little bit hard for
me to say definitively.
But top task analysis was created
by a guy called Gerry McGovern.
It's been around for years.
No doubt other people have taken it and
changed it and
done their own things with it as have I.
I'm not doing it exactly like he does.
I'm a great believer in making
something as lightweight and
quick to do as possible.
And I was saying this when we were
recording the other course as well,
was that oftentimes we talk
a lot about best practice and
there are all these official
ways of doing things.
And it puts this pressure on people
that they have to do it the right way.
I mean, I know you guys have
just been doing a course, right?
And you've been taught
the right way to do things.
But in the real world,
when you're actually working on projects,
sometimes you have to do
it the quick way [LAUGH].
And so doing just a quick poll where
people vote is probably quicker
than what you were talking about,
but I might be wrong.
You had a question as well, did you?
>> Yeah, and one thing on the line of the
Kano survey is that it can find tasks and
features that users don't
know that they will want.
How do you discover those
in that top task analysis?
>> You don't,
it's not a part of what it's doing.
And that's actually a great
example then of how
sometimes you just want to
pare it down and get it done.
I would argue let's not worry about
what users don't know that they need and
let's just sort out what
they know they need, right?
And a lot of organizations are so,
Don't do the basics.
Do you know?
Don't meet people's fundamental needs.
I'm going off on a rant now.
The number of times you go, yes,
we want to personalize
the experience on the website.
Well, hang on a minute,
it's not even usable yet and
you're worrying about personalization.
So I would argue, look, first of all,
you deliver what they know they need and
they are asking for and
then worry about the other stuff later.
But I might just be turning into a grumpy
old man, so take it or leave it, yeah?
>> Yeah, rather than doing polls,
I actually was privileged at
my last client to listen in on
to disputes, it was a bank.
They allowed me to listen to disputes that
customers would call in as well
as customer service calls.
And then I also had the ability to partner
with legal to figure out the latest and
greatest laws that
are being implemented to
make sure that our app
is abiding by that law.
But when I was gathering the top tasks,
I would use those as a justification
to say, hey, one of the problems that
banking mobile apps have is that
hackers would call in and say,
hey share your screen and I'll show
you how to make a better investment.
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> And the problem with that is that if
you're starting to share your mobile app
onto a screen so someone else can see
it visibly, that's a whole big problem.
So what we've done in our app is
we can detect if you're sharing,
we block it, you can't even share at all.
You can't see anything
on the mobile device and
also on the [COUGH] screen itself.
But those things are justifiable.
>> Yeah,
now that's very interesting, mind,
because there is an example going back
to what you were saying that users
wouldn't realize they needed that feature,
but they did need it.
So perhaps I'm talking
rubbish then [LAUGH].
So that's a very good use case.
That's very true.
Yeah, interesting.
>> Yeah, I liked the polling thing but
sometimes you just got to see
the sources inside of [INAUDIBLE].
>> You do, as I was saying on
the course about user research and
testing, you do what you can, right?
If you get to do all that stuff,
power to you, I think that's amazing, and
I think it's a great opportunity you had.
If you don't have that opportunity,
run in a poll, right?
And to be honest, I would argue that
even if you did have that opportunity,
I would still run the poll, right?
So I would take all the things that
you learned from that opportunity,
where all these different
places of potential tasks,
everything you did was a place
to learn about potential tasks.
And once you know those tasks,
then you can kind of feed them into the,
now it's gonna make me go
through this animation.
Then you can feed it back into the actual
survey into the top task analysis.